# string
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">string</div>

<!---
	This file is autogenerated. Do not edit this file manually. Your changes will be ignored.
	More information: https://github.com/MWSE/MWSE/tree/master/docs
-->

This library provides generic functions for string manipulation, such as finding and extracting substrings, and pattern matching. When indexing a string in Lua, the first character is at position `1` (not at `0`, as in C). Indices are allowed to be negative and are interpreted as indexing backwards, from the end of the string. Thus, the last character is at position `-1`, and so on.
Several functions in this library (e.g., `find`, `gfind`, `gsub`), make use of [Lua patterns](https://www.lua.org/pil/20.2.html).

## Functions

### `string.endswith`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">endswith</div>

Returns `true` if a `string` ends with a given substring.
This function **does not** use pattern matching.


```lua
local result = string.endswith(s, pattern)
```

**Parameters**:

* `s` (string)
* `pattern` (string)

**Returns**:

* `result` (boolean)

***

### `string.format`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">format</div>

This function creates a string, given various values. The first parameter follows the [printf](http://www.cplusplus.com/reference/cstdio/printf) format, with the additional option of `%q` to automatically quote a string.

Specifier | Output												  | Example
--------- | ------------------------------------------------------- | -------------
`%d`	  | Signed decimal integer.								 | -392
`%i`	  | Same as `%d`.										   | -392
`%u`	  | Unsigned decimal integer.							   | 7235
`%o`	  | Unsigned octal.										 | 610
`%x`	  | Unsigned hexadecimal integer.						   | 7fa
`%X`	  | As `%x`, but uppercase.								 | 7FA
`%f`	  | Decimal floating point, lowercase.					  | 392.65
`%F`	  | Decimal floating point, uppercase.					  | 392.65
`%e`	  | Scientific notation (mantissa/exponent), lowercase.	 | 3.9265e+2
`%E`	  | Scientific notation (mantissa/exponent), uppercase.	 | 3.9265E+2
`%g`	  | Use the shortest representation: %e or %f.			  | 392.65
`%G`	  | Use the shortest representation: %E or %F.			  | 392.65
`%a`	  | Hexadecimal floating point, lowercase.				  | -0xc.90fep-2
`%A`	  | Hexadecimal floating point, uppercase.				  | -0XC.90FEP-2
`%c`	  | Character.											  | a
`%s`	  | String of characters.								   | sample
`%q`	  | Quoted string of characters.							| "sample"
`%p`	  | Pointer address.										| b8000000
`%%`	  | The literal `%` character.							  | %

```lua
local result = string.format(format, ...)
```

**Parameters**:

* `format` (string): The format string to use for the output.
* `...` (any): *Optional*. Values to format into the specified `string`.

**Returns**:

* `result` (string)

***

### `string.insert`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">insert</div>

Returns a string where one string has been inserted into another, after a specified position.
		
For example, `string.insert("12345678", "abcdefgh", 5)` will return `"12345abcdefgh678"`.

```lua
local result = string.insert(s1, s2, position)
```

**Parameters**:

* `s1` (string): The string to insert into.
* `s2` (string): The string to insert.
* `position` (integer): An index of `s1`. The `s2` `string` will be inserted after this index.

**Returns**:

* `result` (string): A copy of `s1`, with `s2` inserted into it after the specified `position`.

***

### `string.multifind`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">multifind</div>

Performs the logic of `string.find` on a `string` `s`, using a `table` of patterns.

If any of the `patterns` are found in `s`, then the matching `pattern` will be returned, followed by the normal results of `string.find`.
	
The `patterns` are checked in the order they are passed. i.e., this function will first try to match `patterns[1]`, then `patterns[2]`, and so on.

```lua
local pattern, startindex, endindex = string.multifind(s, patterns, index, plain)
```

**Parameters**:

* `s` (string): The `string` to `find` `patterns` in.
* `patterns` (table): An array-style `table` that contains the patterns to match.
* `index` (integer): *Default*: `1`. Start index of the `find`. (Same meaning as in `string.find`.)
* `plain` (boolean): *Default*: `false`. If `true`, then a normal search will be performed instead of a pattern search. (Same meaning as in `string.find`.)

**Returns**:

* `pattern` (string): *Optional*. If a pattern was matched, then this will be the first pattern that was matched. If no patterns matched, this will be `nil`.
* `startindex` (integer): *Optional*. If a `pattern` was matched, this is the index of `s` where the matching `pattern` begins.
* `endindex` (integer): *Optional*. If a `pattern` was matched, this is the index of `s` where the matching `pattern` ends.

***

### `string.split`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">split</div>

Returns an array-style table with a `string` split by a specified separator.
The seperator is not part of the results. 
By default the `sep == "%s"`, which will result in `str` getting split by whitespace characters (e.g. spaces and tabs).

!!! warning 
	if `sep` is more than one character, then `str` will get split at each occurrence of any of the individual characters in `sep`.
	For example, `string.split("1a2b3c4abc5", "abc")` will return `{"1", "2", "3", "4", "5"}` instead of `{"1a2b3c4", "5"}`.


```lua
local split = string.split(str, sep)
```

**Parameters**:

* `str` (string): The string to split.
* `sep` (string): *Default*: `"%s"`. The token to split the string by.

**Returns**:

* `split` (string[])

***

### `string.startswith`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">startswith</div>

Returns `true` if a `string` begins with a given substring.
This function **does not** use pattern matching.

```lua
local result = string.startswith(s, substring)
```

**Parameters**:

* `s` (string)
* `substring` (string)

**Returns**:

* `result` (boolean)

***

### `string.trim`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">trim</div>

Returns a copy of the string, with whitespace characters (e.g. spaces and tabs) removed from the start and end.

```lua
local trimmed = string.trim(s)
```

**Parameters**:

* `s` (string)

**Returns**:

* `trimmed` (string)

