# tes3uiTextInput
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">tes3uitextinput, textinput</div>

<!---
	This file is autogenerated. Do not edit this file manually. Your changes will be ignored.
	More information: https://github.com/MWSE/MWSE/tree/master/docs
-->

A structure containing properties specific to text inputs.

This type inherits the following: [tes3uiWidget](../types/tes3uiWidget.md).
## Properties

### `element`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">element</div>

Access back to the element this widget interface is for.

**Returns**:

* `result` ([tes3uiElement](../types/tes3uiElement.md))

***

### `eraseOnFirstKey`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">eraseonfirstkey</div>

*Default*: `true`. If `true`, clears the initial value if the first keypress is not an edit action.

**Returns**:

* `result` (boolean)

***

### `lengthLimit`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">lengthlimit</div>

The character limit. Inputting additional characters will not be possible if this limit has been reached. Setting this to `nil` will remove the limit.

**Returns**:

* `result` (number)

***

## Methods

### `clear`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">clear</div>

Clears the text currently in the input. If placeholder text is specified, the text will be reset to use it.

```lua
myObject:clear()
```

***

### `getIsNumeric`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">getisnumeric, isnumeric</div>

Returns `true` if the element is supposed to only contain numbers.

```lua
local result = myObject:getIsNumeric()
```

**Returns**:

* `result` (boolean)

***

### `getIsPlaceholding`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">getisplaceholding, isplaceholding</div>

Returns `true` if the element is currently in placeholding mode.

```lua
local result = myObject:getIsPlaceholding()
```

**Returns**:

* `result` (boolean)

***

### `getPlaceholdingText`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">getplaceholdingtext, placeholdingtext</div>

Returns the text used when placeholding.

```lua
local result = myObject:getPlaceholdingText()
```

**Returns**:

* `result` (string?)

***

### `setIsNumeric`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">setisnumeric, isnumeric</div>

Sets or unsets the element's numeric-only status.

```lua
myObject:setIsNumeric(numeric)
```

**Parameters**:

* `numeric` (boolean)

***

### `setIsPlaceholding`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">setisplaceholding, isplaceholding</div>

Sets or unsets the element's placeholding status. Calling this will set or clear the placeholding text if appropriate.

```lua
myObject:setIsPlaceholding(placeholding)
```

**Parameters**:

* `placeholding` (boolean)

***

### `setPlaceholdingText`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">setplaceholdingtext, placeholdingtext</div>

Sets the element's placeholding text. If the input is currently placeholding, the element will be updated to the new text.

```lua
myObject:setPlaceholdingText(text)
```

**Parameters**:

* `text` (string)

