# tes3magicEffectTickEventData
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">tes3magiceffecttickeventdata, magiceffecttickeventdata</div>

<!---
	This file is autogenerated. Do not edit this file manually. Your changes will be ignored.
	More information: https://github.com/MWSE/MWSE/tree/master/docs
-->

This table is passed to the `onTick` callback function in a custom magic effect.

## Properties

### `deltaTime`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">deltatime</div>

The time passed since the last tick of the spell.

**Returns**:

* `result` (number)

***

### `effectId`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">effectid</div>

Maps to values in [`tes3.effect`](https://mwse.github.io/MWSE/references/magic-effects/) table.

**Returns**:

* `result` ([tes3.effect](../references/magic-effects.md), integer)

***

### `effectIndex`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">effectindex</div>

The index of the effect in the spell.

**Returns**:

* `result` (integer)

***

### `effectInstance`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">effectinstance</div>

Access to the magic effect instance.

**Returns**:

* `result` ([tes3magicEffectInstance](../types/tes3magicEffectInstance.md))

***

### `sourceInstance`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">sourceinstance</div>

Access to the magic source of the effect instance.

**Returns**:

* `result` ([tes3magicSourceInstance](../types/tes3magicSourceInstance.md))

***

## Methods

### `trigger`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">trigger</div>

Allows the effect to run through the normal spell event system.

```lua
local eventResult, modifiedValue = myObject:trigger({ negateOnExpiry = ..., isUncapped = ..., attribute = ..., type = ..., value = ..., resistanceCheck = ... })
```

**Parameters**:

* `params` (table): *Optional*.
	* `negateOnExpiry` (boolean): *Default*: `true`. If this flag is `true`, the effect will be negated on expiry.
	* `isUncapped` (boolean): *Optional*.
	* `attribute` ([tes3.effectAttribute](../references/effect-attributes.md)): *Default*: `tes3.effectAttribute.nonResistable`. The attribute used in resistance calculations agains this effect. Maps to values in [`tes3.effectAttribute`](https://mwse.github.io/MWSE/references/effect-attributes/) table.
	* `type` ([tes3.effectEventType](../references/effect-event-types.md)): *Default*: `tes3.effectEventType.boolean`. This flag controls how the effect behaves. For example, `tes3.effectEventType.modStatistic` will make the effect work as calling `tes3.modStatistic`. Maps to values in [`tes3.effectEventType`](https://mwse.github.io/MWSE/references/effect-event-types/) table.
	* `value` (boolean, integer, number, [tes3statistic](../types/tes3statistic.md)): *Default*: `0`. The variable this effect changes. This can be a local variable in a script or a tes3statistic property on a `tes3mobileActor`. The type of the passed variable must match the type of the `type` parameter.
	* `resistanceCheck` (fun(e: [tes3magicEffectResistenceCheckEventData](../types/tes3magicEffectResistenceCheckEventData.md)): boolean?): *Optional*. The function passed as `resistanceCheck` will be used on any of the game's spell resistance checks. Returning `true` from this function will set your effect to expired, and depending on your trigger code may stop processing.

For example, the only effect in vanilla Morrowind that implements this function is Water Walking. It disallows using a spell with Water Walking when the player is deep underwater, by setting it as expired.

**Returns**:

* `eventResult` (boolean)
* `modifiedValue` (boolean, integer, number, [tes3statistic](../types/tes3statistic.md)): The passed `value`, scaled by resistance. The returned type depends on the passed `type` parameter.

***

### `triggerBoundArmor`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">triggerboundarmor</div>

Performs vanilla armor summoning logic, but also allows bracers and pauldrons. It can summon one or two armor objects with provided ID(s). When summoning gauntlets, bracers or pauldrons, you can provide two IDs.

```lua
myObject:triggerBoundArmor(id, id2)
```

**Parameters**:

* `id` (string): The ID of the armor object to summon.
* `id2` (string): *Optional*. The ID of the additional gauntlet, bracer or pauldron object to summon.

***

### `triggerBoundWeapon`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">triggerboundweapon</div>

Performs vanilla weapon summoning logic. It will create a summoned version of the weapon with provided ID.

```lua
myObject:triggerBoundWeapon(id)
```

**Parameters**:

* `id` (string): The ID of the weapon object to summon.

***

### `triggerSummon`
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">triggersummon</div>

Performs vanilla creature summoning logic. It will create a summoned version of a creature with provided ID.

```lua
myObject:triggerSummon(id)
```

**Parameters**:

* `id` (string): The ID of the creature object to summon.

