# calcTouchSpellCone
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">calctouchspellcone</div>

<!---
	This file is autogenerated. Do not edit this file manually. Your changes will be ignored.
	More information: https://github.com/MWSE/MWSE/tree/master/docs
-->

This event is raised just before a touch spell completes casting, to set up the hit detection cone for spell targets. See `calcHitDetectionCone` for the melee equivalent.

```lua
--- @param e calcTouchSpellConeEventData
local function calcTouchSpellConeCallback(e)
end
event.register(tes3.event.calcTouchSpellCone, calcTouchSpellConeCallback)
```

!!! tip
	This event can be filtered based on the **`attacker.baseObject`** event data.

!!! tip
	An event can be claimed by setting `e.claim` to `true`, or by returning `false` from the callback. Claiming the event prevents any lower priority callbacks from being called.

## Event Data

* `angleXY` (number): The maximum allowable angle offset (in degrees) in the horizontal direction that will hit. This is related to game setting fCombatAngleXY but using different units. May be adjusted. The highest effective angle is 90 degrees, and larger angles will behave like 90 degrees.
* `angleZ` (number): The maximum allowable angle offset (in degrees) in the vertical direction that will hit. This is related to game setting fCombatAngleZ but using different units. May be adjusted. The highest effective angle is 90 degrees, and larger angles will behave like 90 degrees.
* `caster` ([tes3reference](../types/tes3reference.md)): *Read-only*. The reference of the caster.
* `casterMobile` ([tes3mobileActor](../types/tes3mobileActor.md)): *Read-only*. The mobile which is casting the magic.
* `reach` (number): The touch spell search range in world units. Currently, changes to this value do not have an effect without further engine modifications.
* `source` ([tes3alchemy](../types/tes3alchemy.md), [tes3enchantment](../types/tes3enchantment.md), [tes3spell](../types/tes3spell.md)): *Read-only*. The magic source.
* `sourceInstance` ([tes3magicSourceInstance](../types/tes3magicSourceInstance.md)): *Read-only*. The unique instance of the magic source.


## Related events

[calcHitDetectionCone](./calcHitDetectionCone.md){ .md-button }

