# calcEnchantmentPrice
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">calcenchantmentprice</div>

<!---
	This file is autogenerated. Do not edit this file manually. Your changes will be ignored.
	More information: https://github.com/MWSE/MWSE/tree/master/docs
-->

This event is raised when an enchantment price is being determined.

```lua
--- @param e calcEnchantmentPriceEventData
local function calcEnchantmentPriceCallback(e)
end
event.register(tes3.event.calcEnchantmentPrice, calcEnchantmentPriceCallback)
```

!!! tip
	An event can be claimed by setting `e.claim` to `true`, or by returning `false` from the callback. Claiming the event prevents any lower priority callbacks from being called.

## Event Data

* `basePrice` (number): *Read-only*. The base price of the enchantment, before any disposition or event modifications.
* `castType` ([tes3.enchantmentType](../references/enchantment-types.md)): *Read-only*. The enchantment cast type. Maps to `tes3.enchantmentType.*`.
* `effects` (table[]): *Read-only*. An array of the effects being enchanted onto the item. This includes the `effect` object, `magnitudeLow`/`magnitudeHigh` values, the `area`, `duration`, and `range`. The `attribute` and `skill` values are available as appropriate.
* `item` ([tes3item](../types/tes3item.md)): *Read-only*. The item, if any, that is being enchanted.
* `itemData` ([tes3itemData](../types/tes3itemData.md)): *Read-only*. The item data for the enchanted item.
* `mobile` ([tes3mobileActor](../types/tes3mobileActor.md)): *Read-only*. The mobile actor for who is offering the enchantment service. May not always be available.
* `price` (number): The price of the enchantment. This can be modified.
* `reference` ([tes3reference](../types/tes3reference.md)): *Read-only*. A shortcut to the mobile's reference. May not always be available.
* `soul` ([tes3actor](../types/tes3actor.md)): *Read-only*. The soul contained in the soul gem.
* `soulGem` ([tes3misc](../types/tes3misc.md)): *Read-only*. The soul gem being used to make the enchantment.
* `soulGemData` ([tes3itemData](../types/tes3itemData.md)): *Read-only*. The soul gem's associated item data.


## Related events

[calcBarterPrice](./calcBarterPrice.md){ .md-button }[calcEnchantmentPrice](./calcEnchantmentPrice.md){ .md-button }[calcRepairPrice](./calcRepairPrice.md){ .md-button }[calcSpellmakingPrice](./calcSpellmakingPrice.md){ .md-button }[calcSpellPrice](./calcSpellPrice.md){ .md-button }[calcTrainingPrice](./calcTrainingPrice.md){ .md-button }[calcTravelPrice](./calcTravelPrice.md){ .md-button }

