# damageHandToHand
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">damagehandtohand</div>

<!---
	This file is autogenerated. Do not edit this file manually. Your changes will be ignored.
	More information: https://github.com/MWSE/MWSE/tree/master/docs
-->

The damageHandToHand event triggers before an actor takes fatigue damage from hand-to-hand combat. It does not trigger on health damage, but the `damage` event will. The `fatigueDamage` value can be modified, or can be prevented completely by blocking the event. The player as attacker will gain hand-to-hand experience only if `fatigueDamage` is greater than zero.

```lua
--- @param e damageHandToHandEventData
local function damageHandToHandCallback(e)
end
event.register(tes3.event.damageHandToHand, damageHandToHandCallback)
```

!!! tip
	This event supports blocking by setting `e.block` to `true` or returning `false`. Blocking the event prevents vanilla behavior from happening. For example, blocking an `equip` event prevents the item from being equipped.

!!! tip
	An event can be claimed by setting `e.claim` to `true`, or by returning `false` from the callback. Claiming the event prevents any lower priority callbacks from being called.

## Event Data

* `attacker` ([tes3mobileActor](../types/tes3mobileActor.md)): *Read-only*. The mobile actor dealing the damage. Can be nil.
* `attackerReference` ([tes3reference](../types/tes3reference.md)): *Read-only*. The attacker mobile's associated reference. Can be nil.
* `fatigueDamage` (number): The amount of fatigue damage done.
* `mobile` ([tes3mobileActor](../types/tes3mobileActor.md)): *Read-only*. The mobile actor that is taking fatigue damage.
* `reference` ([tes3reference](../types/tes3reference.md)): *Read-only*. The mobile’s associated reference.
* `source` ([tes3.damageSource](../references/damage-sources.md)): *Read-only*. The origin of the damage. May be `tes3.damageSource.attack` or `tes3.damageSource.script`.


## Related events

[damage](./damage.md){ .md-button }[damaged](./damaged.md){ .md-button }[damageHandToHand](./damageHandToHand.md){ .md-button }[damagedHandToHand](./damagedHandToHand.md){ .md-button }

