# damage
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">damage</div>

<!---
	This file is autogenerated. Do not edit this file manually. Your changes will be ignored.
	More information: https://github.com/MWSE/MWSE/tree/master/docs
-->

The damage event triggers before an actor is damaged. The damage value can be modified, or the damage can be prevented completely by blocking the event.

```lua
--- @param e damageEventData
local function damageCallback(e)
end
event.register(tes3.event.damage, damageCallback)
```

!!! tip
	This event supports blocking by setting `e.block` to `true` or returning `false`. Blocking the event prevents vanilla behavior from happening. For example, blocking an `equip` event prevents the item from being equipped.

!!! tip
	An event can be claimed by setting `e.claim` to `true`, or by returning `false` from the callback. Claiming the event prevents any lower priority callbacks from being called.

## Event Data

* `activeMagicEffect` ([tes3activeMagicEffect](../types/tes3activeMagicEffect.md)): *Read-only*. Only valid for elemental shield reactive damage. It is the magic effect of the shield which will cause damage. Can be `nil`.
* `attacker` ([tes3mobileActor](../types/tes3mobileActor.md)): *Read-only*. The mobile actor dealing the damage. Can be `nil`.
* `attackerReference` ([tes3reference](../types/tes3reference.md)): *Read-only*. The attacker mobile's associated reference. Can be `nil`.
* `damage` (number): The amount of damage done.
* `magicEffect` ([tes3effect](../types/tes3effect.md)): *Read-only*. The specific effect that triggered the event. This is equal to accessing `e.magicSourceInstance.effects[effectIndex]`. Only valid if magicSourceInstance is set.
* `magicEffectIndex` (number): *Read-only*. The index of the effect in source's effects list. Only valid if magicSourceInstance is set.
* `magicEffectInstance` ([tes3magicEffectInstance](../types/tes3magicEffectInstance.md)): *Read-only*. An instance of the magic effect in the spell that will cause the damage. Can be `nil`.
* `magicSourceInstance` ([tes3magicSourceInstance](../types/tes3magicSourceInstance.md)): *Read-only*. A `tes3magicSourceInstance` object of a spell that will cause the damage. Can be `nil`.
* `mobile` ([tes3mobileActor](../types/tes3mobileActor.md)): *Read-only*. The mobile actor that is taking damage.
* `projectile` ([tes3mobileProjectile](../types/tes3mobileProjectile.md)): *Read-only*. Projectile that will deal the damage. Can be `nil`.
* `reference` ([tes3reference](../types/tes3reference.md)): *Read-only*. The mobile’s associated reference.
* `source` ([tes3.damageSource](../references/damage-sources.md)): *Read-only*. The origin of the damage. These damage sources are present as [`tes3.damageSource`](https://mwse.github.io/MWSE/references/damage-sources/) constants. See the example. Damage with `tes3.damageSource.shield` source comes from magic shields. Other sources are self-explanatory.

## Examples

!!! example "Example: Change fall damage"

	```lua
	
	-- Change fall damage if player is a Bosmer
	local function onDamage(e)
		-- We only care if the player took some damage
		if e.reference ~= tes3.player then
			return
		end
	
		-- Check if the damage was caused by a fall
		if e.source ~= tes3.damageSource.fall then
			return
		end
	
		-- Check weather the player is a Bosmer
		if e.reference.object.race.id:lower() == "bosmer" then	-- This is the same as tes3.player.object.race.id:lower() == "bosmer"
			-- Taunt the player
			tes3.messageBox("Ha ha ha, you broke your leg Bosmer")
	
			-- Double the damage. He is Fargoth's cousin after all
			e.damage = e.damage * 2
		end
	end
	event.register(tes3.event.damage, onDamage)

	```


## Related events

[damage](./damage.md){ .md-button }[damaged](./damaged.md){ .md-button }[damageHandToHand](./damageHandToHand.md){ .md-button }[damagedHandToHand](./damagedHandToHand.md){ .md-button }

