# magicReflect
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">magicreflect</div>

<!---
	This file is autogenerated. Do not edit this file manually. Your changes will be ignored.
	More information: https://github.com/MWSE/MWSE/tree/master/docs
-->

This event is triggered before a magic reflection check. It allows changing the reflection chance. Note that some magic effects that the player casts are unreflectable (usually non-damage effects, see magic effect flags) and do not trigger this event.
	
Each reflect effect active on a target will roll separately; the reflect chances are independent. This event also occurs once per effect in a spell, so a multi-effect spell may trigger this multiple times.

```lua
--- @param e magicReflectEventData
local function magicReflectCallback(e)
end
event.register(tes3.event.magicReflect, magicReflectCallback)
```

!!! tip
	This event can be filtered based on the **`target`** event data.

!!! tip
	An event can be claimed by setting `e.claim` to `true`, or by returning `false` from the callback. Claiming the event prevents any lower priority callbacks from being called.

## Event Data

* `mobile` ([tes3mobileActor](../types/tes3mobileActor.md)): *Read-only*. The mobile actor that may reflect the spell.
* `reflectChance` (number): The % chance that the magic is reflected. May be modified.
* `reflectEffect` ([tes3activeMagicEffect](../types/tes3activeMagicEffect.md)): *Read-only*. The specific reflect effect being tested. This is a `tes3activeMagicEffect` instead of a more common magic instance. You can lookup the magic source instance or effect instance with `tes3activeMagicEffect` accessors.
* `source` ([tes3alchemy](../types/tes3alchemy.md), [tes3enchantment](../types/tes3enchantment.md), [tes3spell](../types/tes3spell.md)): *Read-only*. The magic source.
* `sourceInstance` ([tes3magicSourceInstance](../types/tes3magicSourceInstance.md)): *Read-only*. The unique instance of the magic source.
* `target` ([tes3reference](../types/tes3reference.md)): *Read-only*. The actor that may reflect the spell.


## Related events

[magicReflected](./magicReflected.md){ .md-button }[absorbedMagic](./absorbedMagic.md){ .md-button }

